Real time Updates

Some examples or applications that uses real time updates to work:
-   Driver location in cab bookings app.
-   Co-working on the same google docs, sheets etc.
-   Live stream needs the real time updates.

Strategies that we can employee to do real time updates (Can read from communication module)
-   API polling
    -   Long polling
    -   Short polling

-   Server side events
-   Web sockets

Some insights about the techniques:

-   API polling:
    -   Client will fetch the data multiple times after a fixed amount of time-span.
        -   Suppose to update a dashboard client is requesting for data from the server after every
            5 seconds.
        -   Suppose server does not have any new data to share so it will share the previous data
            due to which unnecessary api calls will be made which can waste resources (Issue).
    -   Long polling: Here some architecture will be followed like simple API polling / short polling
        the main difference here will be that if server does not have any updated data so it will wait 
        till the new data is updated in the server and only then send the data in the response.

-   Server side events:
    -   It works like a push notification system, It's not like that client will make request after a 
        certain amount of time. The server will send the data when new data will be there. So the 
        receiving of response will be irregular. The data can be received anytime.

    - How this works ?
        -   Step 1: Client will subscribe to the server.
        -   Step 2: Whenever the server will have the data it will send it to the subscriber.
        -   Now the data will be received by the client whenever there will be a new data, no need to 
            be done anything new from client side.

-   Websockets:
    -   Step 1: Client makes a connection with the server.
    -   It follows a duplex system.
    -   The data can go from client to server or vice versa anytime.
    -   Step 2: Now after the connection gets established data sharing can happen anytime.


                    Polling                         |                  Websockets
                                                    |
1. One way (Half duplex)                            | 1. Two way (duplex)
2. API calls are a lot, and this is                 | 2. One time connection is made and that's all.
   an expensive process. Each API call need to      |    Not expensive at all.
   establish a connection due to which the process  | 
   becomes expensive.                               |
3. Easy compatible with browser we can do API       | 3. Not that compatible.
   polling anywhere.                                |
4. Near to the real-time. (some interval is there.) | 4. Totally near time.
                                                    |    
   Examples: Dashboards, Gmail, Driver locations,   | Examples: Live chat application,
             youtube live stream etc.               |           Google docs, sheet etc.
                                                    |