- What is Pagination ?

When we have the large amount of data and we need to show it on a website. Like suppose we have millions
of entires then we cannot show them directly on the webpage in one go, we need a mechanism to show them
on the webpage in a proper manner so that user would not get overwhelmed. 

So, we broke down the data into multiple clusters and show them with same count of entries on each defined
page one by one. 

- Why do we need Pagination ?

To make our app clutter free and easy to use.

- What type of Pagination is used in which kind of application ?

We need to make sure if the current app on which we are working even need a pagination, we cannot just
implement pagination if the app does not require any.

- Why we are choosing this particular type/technique of Pagination ?

It totally depends upon the product requirement, when we need a limited set of data and need the next 
set of data after some user action, we call this mechanism pagination. So, a simple list of buttons 
with page number can helps with pagination and even the infinite scroll can help us with pagination.

Infinite scroll is an effective alternative solution tha n simple pagination.


- Difference between Pagination and Infinite scroll.

                    Pagination                      |                  Infinite scroll
                                                    |
1. Structure and Hierarchy in data.                 |  1. Data is not structured properly.
2. Data is finite (we know how much entries we      |  2. Data is infinite, Totally depends upon the data 
   will see on a random page).                      |     present inside the database.
3. Back and Forth movement/navigation is possible.  |  3. No back and forth the previous data will be there.
4. We get the footer.                               |  4. No footer.
                                                    |  5. It is addictive, mobile friendly and Real time.
                                                    |

- How can we implement this ? What type of strategies we can use ?


- Explain different kind of pagination.

Frontend: Client side pagination
Backend: Server side pagination


